>> Brian Holt: So we're going back to
React, away from tooling for a while.
So I'm just gonna leave my server
running in the background here.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, and
then we'll keep going.
So far, I've been showing you
how to write React without
any really transpilation or anything like
that just raw React underneath the hood.
But I wanna show you how to
use this feature called JSX,
because we're using parcel
now we can use JSX,
whereas we could not before because
parcel was not running on our code.
And parcel do transformations
using a project called Babel,
which is a really cool project.
And that's just built into parcel, okay?
So here we have,
let's actually go do pet.js first.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so you're looking at
this project right now, and you can see
that this is gonna create a div with
an h1 and two h2's inside of it, right?
So we're writing JavaScript
to mimic markup, right?
So inside of your brain when
you're thinking about okay, well,
I need to have a div inside of
that I need to have an h1 and h2.
You have to think about
the HTML that you want and
then have to translate that in your brain
to JavaScript that React can do, right?
Wouldn't it be nice if we could just write
the HTML that we wanted in the first place
rather than having to have that
translation layer in our brain?
Well, that's what JSX is and
like that is all JSX is.
It's not anything else,
there's not additional features
beyond just what I just told you.
>> Brian Holt: So I'll comment this
out for just a second just like this.
And I want you to say return, and then I
want you to write div like this, okay?
And then inside of that div I want you
to put an h1 and then inside of that h1,
I want you to put curly braces
like that and put name.
Then an h2, and instead of curly braces
inside of that, we could do animal.
And inside of another h2,
probably guessed breed, yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Are there any Emmit
shortcuts for writing in JSX?
>> Brian Holt: There are, yeah, for sure.
Do I have it, yeah, so
>> Brian Holt: I'm pretty sure
the way you have to do that right now is,
>> Brian Holt: Let's just try it.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so
if I change this to be .jsx,
it would just work out of the box.
There's a way to enable it for
JS files, and I forgot how to do it.
But so let's just talk for a second about
why I'm not changing everything to be
.jsx, the real reason I'm not doing that
in teaching that too is because the React
core team said that they don't think it's
necessary, so I don't do it and that's it.
But if you do changes it be .jsx you'll
get some of that stuff for free.
>> Speaker 3: The other way
is just to change the type in
VS Code to JavaScript React
from JavaScript.
So on the bottom there
it's says JavaScript,
if you change it to JavaScript React.
>> Brian Holt: That'll work as well.
>> Speaker 3: That'll work as well.
>> Brian Holt: So
now I can do h2 like that.
>> Brian Holt: There's a way to
configure those .js files always
have that available as well.
But I'm sure if you Google it,
it'll be the top stack overflow question.
So we've now translated this
to this and
these are equivalent right now, right?
I will personally tell you that I think
this is far more readable, right?
There's less code, it's less dense,
there's not objects and quotes and
things like that.
But when React was first starting out,
this was a big barrier for
a lot of people.
It was a big barrier because we took
a long time getting JavaScript out of our
HTML, and now we're putting HTML
into our JavaScript, right?
And that just feels wrong.
But I'll tell you that this is
better because it's not the same.
Putting JavaScript inside of your HTML was
a terrible idea, and whoever started doing
that, they set us back like five years,
if we're being totally honest, right?
But whereas this, we're just writing the
HTML that we actually want in the code.
And now I want you to know
that this little div tag here,
literally gets translated to this.
If you go look at the transpiled output,
right?
So after this gets ran through Babble,
everything here is just being translated
into React.create.ElementCalls, right?
So there's no mystery here.
It's not doing any sort of black magic or
optimization or anything like that.
Literally what gets put it in
the code is this,oops not that, this.
That's why I have you write all this stuff
first so you understand that this is all
just React.createElementCalls,
and there's nothing amiss here.
Does that make sense?
>> Brian Holt: And I promise you, there's
nothing else in JSX, this is really it.
Anyone else have any questions, yeah?
>> Speaker 4: I have noticed
that sometimes if you
try to make multiple
divs in your return and
your JSX it yells at you and
you need to have something to wrap it all.
>> Brian Holt: Yep.
>> Speaker 4: Is there specific reason?
I mean, I understand the idea
of returning only one thing but.
>> Brian Holt: I mean that's precisely it,
right?
So if I put like,
>> Brian Holt: If I put this here, right?
It's gonna say,
I don't know what to, adjacent JSX
elements must be wrapped in enclosing tag,
thanks, ESLint caught it for us, right?
So let's talk about this for a second.
What does this get translated
to if I have this?
Well, if I uncommented this
it would be like having,
>> Brian Holt: React.createElement or
contextElement, stop it element
each h1 right, something like that.
>> Brian Holt: And this doesn't make any
sense because you can't return two things,
right?
I can't say return 2, comma 5, right?
JavaScript does not have this ability,
some other languages have multiple
returns, but not JavaScript.
So that's why React requires you to return
one top level thing because
that's what JavaScript can do.
Now there is a way to accomplish this
which we'll get to later which are called
fragments, but you return one top-level
fragment which encapsulates two things,
does that make sense
>> Brian Holt: All right,
let's get rid of that.
So if this still feels weird to you,
a lot of people will still feel weird to,
I would invite you to just
finish the course with this.
I will tell you that there's only one or
two major holdouts of companies that
didn't use JSX and now both of the big
ones that I know of now use JSX, right?
It's just everyone in the React community
is JSX and people like it enough that
even the Vue community some of
them use JSX as well, right?
So it's it's a pretty good pattern.